# 06. Vectors
Vectors allow the storage of more than one value in a single variable. This can be done in several ways. A vector always starts at the index 0. Here are multiple examples of the same type of declaration:

a. Example one;

```java
int a [] = {2, 3, 5 , 8};
````

b. Example two;

```java
int a [0] = [2];
int a [1] = [3];
int a [2] = [5];
int a [3] = [8];
```

In other words, first the slot of the variable’s position is determined and in that slot, it will receive a value that is typed. In the example “``a``” is the vector.
## Counting the values of a vector and printing with For

To count what is inside a vector or every slot of a value is very simple. Example:

```java
int n[] = {2, 3, 4, 6};
for (int c=0; c<=4; c++){
    System.out.print(n[c]);
}
```

In the example above, it will show the vector ``n`` in the counted position up to 4. If it were to print only the vector ``n``, only the slots would appear, in this case, 0 to 4 and not the values declared within them. To say the position and what is in each index/position is also very easy. Example:

```java
System.out.println("In position "+ c +" we have the number: "+ n[c]);
```

## Reading the total of houses with the lenght attribute

The length attribute, which is literally length, serves to measure how many indices are in a vector. Example:

```java
System.out.print("The total number of slots (indexes) of the vector "n" is: "+n.lenght);
```

It will return only the quantity of the given example, in this case, 4.

Until using length, it is possible for the for to make a generic check without needing to impose a limit on the true condition of the repetition, being it “``c<4``”, just do the following example:

```java
for (int c=0; c<=n.leght-1; c++){
    System.out.print(n[c]);
}
```

The ``-1`` serves to determine that the count does not go up to 5 and does not overflow the vector (if this condition is not met, the code gives an error).

## More of Length

It is possible to make a list of each month of the year, with each quantity of days that each one has. Example:

```java
String mes [] = {"Jan"};
int tot [] = {"31"};
for (int c=0; c<=mes.leght; c++){
System.out.println ("The month" + mes[c] + " has " + tot[c] + " days in total.");
}
```

## For-Each Vector

The For-Each or For-Each-One works specifically for vectors and is extremely compact. Example:

```java
int n[] = {2, 3, 4, 6};
for (int vetor: n){
System.out.println(valor);
}
```

The vetor variable is fed with all the values stored in the indices of “``n``”.

## Array Class

Array is a specific class for reading vectors. It is declared through import ``java.util.Arrays``, that is, it belongs to the **util library**.

a. **Putting values of a vector in order**: to put a vector in order is very easy. Before the for, the following line must be declared;

```java
Array.sort (n);
```

Done, the printed values will be put in order.

b. **Search for the value of an index with Array**: the declarations for the command to be executed will be as follows;

```java
int n[] = {2, 3, 4, 6};

//FOR TO COUNT AND SHOW THE NUMBER INSIDE THE INDEX
for (int vetor: n){
System.out.println(vetor+ "");
}
System.out.println("");

//ARRAY TO COUNT THE POSITION OF THE NUMBER TO BE SEARCHED IN THE INDICES
int p = Arrays.binarySearch (n, 4); //Vector and value to be searched
System.out.println("The determined value was found in position: "+p);
}
```

In short, the for prints the value and the binarySearch the position of the number that was asked to be searched. In the case of the example, the position will be 2 (remembering that the vector starts at 0).